---
title: "Solar Coronal Density Turbulence and Magnetic Field Strength at the Source Regions of Two Successive Metric Type II Radio Bursts "
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/paper18
excerpt: 'Authors: Ramesh, R., Kathiravan, C. & Kumari, A.'
date: January 2023
venue: 'The Astrophysical Journal, Volume 943, Issue 1, id.43, 6 pp.'
---

Authors: Ramesh, R., Kathiravan, C. & Kumari, A.

 We report spectral and polarimeter observations of two weak, low-frequency (≈85-60 MHz) solar coronal type II radio bursts that occurred on 2020 May 29 within a time interval ≈2 minutes. The bursts had fine structures, and were due to harmonic plasma emission. Our analysis indicates that the magnetohydrodynamic shocks responsible for the first and second type II bursts were generated by the leading edge (LE) of an extreme-ultraviolet flux rope/coronal mass ejection (CME) and interaction of its flank with a neighboring coronal structure, respectively. The CME deflected from the radial direction by ≈25° during propagation in the near-Sun corona. The estimated power spectral density and magnetic field strength (B) near the location of the first burst at heliocentric distance r ≈ 1.35 R ⊙ are ≈2 × 10-3 W2m and ≈1.8 G, respectively. The corresponding values for the second burst at the same r are ≈10-3 W2m and ≈0.9 G. The significant spatial scales of the coronal turbulence at the location of the two type II bursts are ≈62-1 Mm. Our conclusions from the present work are that the turbulence and magnetic field strength in the coronal region near the CME LE are higher compared to the corresponding values close to its flank. The derived estimates of the two parameters correspond to the same r for both the CME LE and its flank, with a delay of ≈2 minutes for the latter.

[Download paper here](http://anshusolar.github.io/files/paper18.pdf)

Recommended citation: Ramesh, R., Kathiravan, C., and Kumari, A., “Solar Coronal Density Turbulence and Magnetic Field Strength at the Source Regions of Two Successive Metric Type II Radio Bursts”, <i>The Astrophysical Journal</i>, vol. 943, no. 1, 2023. doi:10.3847/1538-4357/acaea5.




